had a horse and buggy, but somebody would invite us
to ride. And the way I, that's how I learned to swim
was the coach, the swim coach taught me, you know,
on these picnics. And did the whole faculty go to
the picnic? Well, whoever, you know, wanted to. It
was just the social ones and, you know. What kind of
food would be served? Oh, you'd bring your, have to
bring your All your food. What was, at your house,
what were your favorite things that y'all ate?
Fried chicken.
I can't think, but we ate well. What kind of cooking
stove did your mother have? What did she cook on?
Well, she cooked on a gas stove. And Mama didn't do
much cooking. We always had a cook. Mama didn't do
much cooking, but we always, I mean, had people
living with us that paid us, I mean, I'm sure helped
with the salary, but when the school crossed the
street, when the music teacher came out from
Bryant, she taught her music lessons in our house.
And we got music lessons free for that, but then it
didn't take. And then we had, well, Dr. Doak, maybe
you remember him. Oh, yes. The Doaks lived in our
upstairs for 13 years. This is Dr. C.C. Doak, and he
taught what? He taught biology. Describe him.
Well, he was just a nice little man. Where did they
come from? Well, he had just fought in the war, and
he came back there, and they both taught all the
years, but they lived with us. Now, she taught in
the A&M Consolidated School? Well, she didn't at
first. She taught out in some of the other places,
but she ended up teaching in... And they were
pleasant neighbors? Well, they lived with us,
yes. Now, when y'all ate, did they cook upstairs?
No, they,
well, they did a little bit of it, you know, but they
didn't cook meals. They ate, I think, ate their
noon meal out and then they just snacked after that
with something upstairs. those of you who lived on
the campus could you eat in sabisa did you all eat in
sabisa dining hall much not unless we were invited
for something special no did you was mr sabisa
still around describe him well he was a very they
were there a little little man i think he was cuban
wasn't he austrian oh austrian okay but but But he
was there. Now Mrs. Thompson now, Dr. Bazell's
daughter, she told me that he drank a lot. I think he
did. And chased around a lot. Well, that I don't
know. They lived up there right across the street
from where he was. Oh, they lived near Sabisa?
Yeah, in the old house up there. Were there any
Sabisa children your age? Oh, not any of my age. Oh,
okay. They were grown, I think. Oh, they were
older? I think they were grown. Okay. Let's see,
and did y'all ever, you children, did y'all ever
play tricks or pranks anywhere on the campus? Oh,
I'm sure we did. Tried anyway. Were there any
places on the campus that your father told you you
were not to go? No, no. We would go, you know, in the
YMCA they had the confectionery and we'd go up
there to get us a drink and things like that. But
there were no other places to go. Now, tell this
machine about the Y. What happened at the YMCA?
What all was there at the YMCA? Well, You got your
hair cut. You went to the beauty parlor in the YMCA.
And in the summertime, we had our swimming class.
And all the kids, Ms. Marsteller, who Dr.
Marsteller was on campus, And she went up there to
the Y and supervised our swimming in the
afternoons while our mamas took naps. But that's
where we all went and swam every afternoon during
the summer. In that conservative era, what was
considered a proper bathing suit for a young lady?
Well, they were long. One piece. One piece in my
home, yeah. Were boys and girls allowed to be in the
swimming pool at the same time? Oh, yeah, the kids.
And at the confectionery, what all could we buy?
Oh, I think it was just drinks and ice cream and
things like that. And what other kinds of events
occurred at the YMCA? Well, at Christmas time, we
had a big party for the students that couldn't go
home and had a big Christmas tree and had a program.
And after 1918, when they had the women's club
organized, They went up on the third floor up
there. That's where they had their meetings. They
had to crawl up there and carry all their food and
everything. How they went up there, I don't know
how my mother ever got up there, but she did. And
please
describe the Cashins. Mr. and Mrs. Cashin, they
came in the 20s, I think. What were they? Describe
them. Well,
Mr. Matthews came before them, I think, as the Y
director, and then Mr. Cashin, and they
were just part of the campus like all the rest of us.
Where did they live? They lived over by the
hospital. And the hospital was about how big? It
was a good-sized hospital. About how many rooms? I
have no idea. Were you ever a patient there? No, no.
Oh, no. We weren't patients there. Dr. Marsh, was
he the doctor when you all came? No, Dr. Ellinger
was the first. Ellinger. Ellinger, and then Dr.
Marsh came later. Did the Marshes live on the
campus? Yes, right across the street from the
hospital. Describe him. What did he look like?
Well, he was blondish and slender and a very nice
man. Because I believe both of the Cashin boys have
told me that he delivered them. Yeah, because they
lived right there close, right behind Dr.
Morrissey's on the little street back there. If a
member of one of the faculty families had gotten
sick, could they have gone to the campus hospital?
I don't think so, but they may have been able to
treat. I just don't know. We had a Brian doctor. How
often did you all go to Brian? Not very often. As I
say, we were late having a car, not as early as a lot
of other people, and by the time you walked down and
got on the streetcar and did all those things,
When did y'all get your first car? Do you remember?
No. It was a Saxon. Have you ever heard of a Saxon?
No. Well, that's what it was. It was a Saxon. A
Saxon. I mean, you don't know when in the 20s? Well,
maybe earlier than the 20s. But anyway,
I learned to drive it going to to church on Sunday, I
was allowed to drive it. And so y'all would go, when
your memory begins, did y'all go to Bryant Church
every Sunday? Did you go down there regularly?
Well, we went pretty regularly, yeah. Now, who
else from the campus went to the Presbyterian
Church that you remember? The Andersons, the
Cashins?
i don't know whether the andersons and the
cashians ever went in brian i just i have no idea
when were there some churches organized at
northgate do you remember no when they started but
it must have been in in the in the 20s all right um you
you graduated from high school in 1925 25 i think it
was and then went away to college Where did you go?
Well, I went to Baylor-Belton because Dr. Hardy,
who had been president at Mississippi A&M, was
then the president. Well, I was supposed to go to
A&M, and at that time they were allowing faculty
daughters to go, and they cut me out the summer that
I was going to go in the fall. They cut that out. What
did your family think about that decision? They
didn't tell me, but anyway, I went over to Baylor
Belton. Let's back up just a second. What did you
hear from the other faculty daughters? What was it
like for them to be students at A&M? Well, see, I was
15 when I went to college, and that's awful young.
It is. I don't know whether we talked about it or
not. Ethel was in Baylor at Waco, and I was in Baylor
at the other one, and Julia across the street was at
the University of Texas, and Mary Frapps was at the
University of Texas. How did you get up to Belton?
Well, they took me in the car with lots of tire
fixing because we had lots of, you know. Had a lot of
flats? A lot of flats. It took a lot of doing. And
your major, what did you major in? Good times. And
you were there how long? I was there two years, and
then I went to SMU. for a semester and then I married
when I was 18. Where did you meet this young man that
you married? Oh, I met him as a freshman when he was a
freshman and I married him when he was a senior. At
A&M? Yeah. How did y'all meet? Well, he was in the
band and we were up on the steps of the YMCA having a
student
Was it Yale practice? Yale practice. And I met him
there as a freshman, and I married him when he was a
senior. We married the beginning of senior week.
What did your family think about your getting
married that young? Well, I guess they lost. They
lost. Tell me, where did he grow up? He grew up in
Dallas. In Dallas? Mm-hmm. And his major?
Isn't that awful? I should know. And where did you
all live then right after you got married? He went
to Victoria and took over the Victoria band and
taught math in the Victoria High School. And how
long were you all there? Oh, four or five, several
years. And then where? Well, then we went to
Yoakum. He took over the Boy Scout for 11 of the 13
counties, and then we had to move to Yoakum. Well,
that didn't last because then the Depression hit,
and everything was gone. There was no money. So
then we went to Cuero, and he taught in the schools
in Cuero. For how long? Four or five years, and then
we went to Bay City. where he was principal of the
high school. And then they wanted him back in
Victoria to take up, they wanted to organize a band
and so we went back to Victoria and when he went in
the service he was the dean of the Victoria Junior
College. That's in World War II. Yeah. And then
after the war, when did you come back to College
Station? Well, I came, I lived at home two years
while he was in the service in Germany. And then we
went to Germany a little later. And then you came
back. When did you move back to College Station?
1960. 1960. We came from Panama. Okay. And so
retired here? Yes. Okay. Let's see. Let's... How
often, back to Belton, how often did you go back and
forth? How often did you come home while you were in
college? Well, as often as I could talk them into
it. And we could take the train. You had to go to Waco
and then come down. But you could take it. There was
a train that you could take. And I came home for a lot
of the dances. How much baggage did you carry back
and forth? Oh, I suppose everything we had. But was
that much? No, it wasn't a lot. And did you ever make
any telephone calls? Oh, certainly, certainly.
Do you remember when you all got your first
telephone on the campus? Did you all have a phone
when you first moved? I'm sure we did. Our number
was 32. 32. 32.
Students today cannot imagine that era. Was it a
private line or a party line? Well, it was a party
line, I guess, but you called and told the operator
who you wanted and the number. And they would...
But it was very important because that's how we got
our groceries. We had to call them in every day.
Let's go back to this, when you met this special
young man. How did y'all meet? You said you met at a
Yale practice? Yale, on the steps of the YMCA. And
he was a freshman. He was a freshman. And you were
still in high school. Yes. So I hurried through
high school then. Uh, and did you then go with him?
Where did y'all go on dates? Well, we were right
there. No, but, I mean, did you go to football games
and movies? Oh, no. He played in the band, and he
played in the, in the Agadam Orchestra, so he never
could take me anyplace. But, and, and the, we got
married on a Saturday, and the next Saturday he
played for the, the, uh, file of all the bag in an
orchestra did and i had a date
that describe the aggie land orchestra do you have
any idea of when it was organized where did it No,
but they played, they were earning their way
through college is what they were doing and it was
very good and they played all over the state of
Texas. That's what I've heard. They did and it was
at Christmas time and on holidays and things they
played all over everywhere and Bill played with
them after the The next year, when they needed him,
he played with them, giving us some extra money,
and because they needed him. What did he play?
Trombone. Trombone. About how many were in the
Aggieland Orchestra? I think about eight, and
they were very good. Whose music did they copy? I
have no idea. Do you remember any places they went
that were kind of exotic or special? They played in
Quero, and they played in Victoria, and then they
played in West Texas, and they just played all over
everywhere.
Who ran the Aggieland Orchestra? Who? i think bozo
briar did bozo briar yeah i don't know how that came
to me but it did and so did he select the new members
well yeah i think you probably probably had to try
out because it was a very good orchestra and uh did
did he make enough money to pay his a m expenses
Well, it helped. You know, it helped. Now, you say
he grew up in Dallas and came here and majored in
what?
Economics. Economics, I see. Who were some of the
special people like, let's see, your father was
teaching all those years in electrical
engineering. And what was his... By then, yeah,
all those years. He was a dean of engineering by
then, I think. All right, now his nickname I know
was Bear Tracks. What did he think about that
nickname? It didn't bother him a bit. All right,
describe him physically. He was a big man. How
tall? I'd say about 5'10".
Did he have big feet? No. Big, yeah, but he just, you
know, they just called him Bear Tracks. Where was
his office? In the electrical engineering
building most of the time. Okay. Until he moved
over into the other.
Yeah, and you know, our son Bill, they called him
Little Bear Tracks. uh-huh when he was in school
who were some of the the if if i could be talking to
your father today reckon who would he say were some
of his special colleagues who were some of the
special faculty members in the 20s
well one of them i want to Mr. Dillingham who did
the, you know, he and Nettie worked together and we
had the first TV. because he built it himself and
they did the first broadcast and it was, Daddy was
sponsoring Mr. Dillingham and helping him who was
in the electrical engineering department. The
first radio broadcast. Yeah, radio. All right.
Did your dad have a part in that, was this that first
football game? Well, he just helped him, helped
Dillingham get involved enabled him to do it, but
he never did do anything. And that was in the
electrical engineering building where they...
Who selected the call letters for the I have no
idea. Because I understand WTAW supposedly stood
for Watch the Aggies Win. Well, I wouldn't be a bit
surprised, but then that was, I think Dutch
Dillingham was the first one to broadcast. Do you
remember your dad being excited about that? Well,
you never knew, you know. Yeah. When your dad
became dean, how often did he have to go to Austin?
Just when they were getting ready to get the
appropriations. And did you and your family, did
you all see the directors when the board of
directors would come to meet? Oh, no. No, you know,
there was a building over there. They had a
building for them, and it was on the other side of
the Spieser Hall. Yes, ma'am. And when they came,
they came by train? I expect they did. And when the
ball games, we'd have at least 12 or 15 special
trains, you know, and they all lined up out there.
And Mom and Daddy, every other Thanksgiving, they
had at least 40 people for lunch. And then Mom would
always have sandwiches and cake for them after the
game before they went back. Describe going to an
Aggie football game. But it was hot, and you wore
your best dress on the first ball game in September
and ruined your wonderful wardrobe because you
didn't get with one new dress a year. And it was hot,
but you wore it and sat out in the hot sun. All right.
Did you usually sit with your parents, or were you
over in the student section? I guess I was in the...
I don't know. I just sat. My parents didn't go very
often. My mother couldn't. She just was crippled
and couldn't. Describe the Aggie band in those
days. Oh, it was great, of course. And, you know, it
played for our wedding. Mama was horrified
because thank goodness it wasn't the size it is
now. But they sat in Guyon Hall, they sat behind the
stage so it was fine. But they wanted to play. Bill
had been the soloist for the band for four years and
they wanted to do it. So you were married in Guyon
Hall? I was married in Guyon Hall. Who was the
minister? Mr. Matthews. He had been here, and he
was a Presbyterian minister, and he came back.
Describe your dress, your wedding dress. Oh, it
was a long white dress, and it was made in Waco. Do
you remember what it cost? No, no idea. I didn't
have to worry about that then. And did people come
from long distance? Did you have a lot of
out-of-town people? We had some out-of-town
people, but not a lot. What were the special
wedding gifts you remember? Oh, I don't know. I've
got a whole list. I wouldn't give a single one of
them up even today. And where did you all go on your
wedding trip? Well, we went to Dallas. for 24 hours
because he had to come back and play for the final
ball, and he was taking his final exams in the
afternoon of the wedding hoping he'd get through.
Let's see. During that time, do you remember Aggie
Bonfire? Oh, yes. Where was it held? On the drill
field? Yeah, on the drill field. And what did they
burn? anything that they could pick up. You had to
watch very carefully not to put anything outside
you wanted. And I remember when I was living at home
for two years during World War II when Bill was
overseas, my father came from the telephone, and
he was dying laughing, and I said, well, what
happened? And he said, there was a man crying on the
phone. His truck was on top of the bonfire.
Now, that's a very good item. That's a very good
item. How did the students carry all of that stuff?
They just managed to do it in the dark because, you
know, it was just awful because you never knew what
you were going to lose. Did they steal somebody's
outhouse to put on there usually? Oh, yeah, yeah,
yeah. Do you remember anybody getting hurt during
Bonfire then? Not that I know of. Did they have
silver taps in those days? Yes. Where was it held?
At the administration. Just like it is now? I think
so. Around Sully? I believe so. And then Final
Review. That was on the drill field over there. And
Commencement, where was it held? Do
you remember any famous visitors, any
celebrities that came to the campus? Oh, we had a
lot. I came and I think
some of the presidents came.
um let's see bonfire oh uh aggie senior rings did do
you remember when your husband-to-be got his ring
i remember when he got his ring because i got one
then they gave you know that was an engagement ring
really and i have one it was was it describe it was it
a miniature miniature really yeah didn't know
that yeah yeah do you Do you have any idea what it
cost? No. He couldn't much because he didn't have
much. Did your husband ever lose his Aggie ring?
Yes. He replaced it and he got one of those new ones
that spoiled everything. The one time he worked in
the yard. He lost it and never found it again. Never
found it again, but he replaced it. Well, let's
see. I'm trying to think of other things. All
right, let's see. Did you have younger brothers
and sisters? Two younger brothers. And they grew
up on the campus also. Yes. And where did they go to
school? They both went to A&M. And Frank, my
brother under me, got a law degree from the
University of Texas after he finished A&M.
Preston was an architect in Houston, Frank. is a
retired, he was General Counsel for Mobile, but he
retired a number of years ago. And it was okay for
them to go to the University of Texas? Well, yes.
After they were Aggies? Yeah, yeah.
As you look back, what is it about, what is it that
builds A&M's spirit?
What makes people so devoted to this school? It's
there, and, you know, in the Army, we've lived all
over everywhere, and it's been very special
always. It's just there. Are there some events
that create the spirit? I don't think so, but, I
mean, that's just me. It's there. What effect did
it have on your life that your family moved to
College Station in 1909? Well, it was my whole
life. It's all on you. How do you feel about A&M
today? What thoughts do you have? Well, I'm very
proud of it. It's a nuisance to have so many cars on
campus, but then if you don't have a university
that grows, you don't have a university. It had to
grow. If someone were to give you a check for a
million dollars and they put one restriction on
it, that you had to give it to Texas A&M, but you
could decide what A&M would do with that million
dollars, what would you tell them to do with it? In
other words, if you could make a big gift to A&M,
what would you want it to go for? I guess I'd want it
to go to the electrical engineering department.
To do what? Whatever they wanted to do with it. All
right. I have run out of topics. Well, that's fine.
We've done well. Well, we sure have. We sure have.
And I am very grateful to you. And we'll get this
typed up and get it back to you soon. Well, I hope
it's something you can use.